English translation: While choosing terms I attempt to take Hahn's perspective and consider the extent to which his ideas were deemed controversial and even still are today. This is why I prefer updating the terms to reflect the modern nomenclature. Also, I don't have any German language skills. I only wanted a good read. When I saw that Hahn's book was never published in English, and since I really like reading historical material I thought I could have fun and translate it myself to get the gist of what he was saying about meteorites. This is only public in the (hopeful) case that an altruistic person(s) with native skills would help with the result that the end effort may have free copy license for all to enjoy. This is an excellent work with incredible microphotographs at high magnifications (consider the collodion process was invented in 1851, the gelatin dry plate in 1871, this book published in 1880). You can tell the author went through a lot of hard work to bring it all together.

1:
It was not the inconsequential attacks on my “Primordial Cell” that made me tire in my efforts to establish certain new geological facts: it was the observation of the untenability of the previous view in the most undisputedly important part of the geological science, in the part through which it is related to the cosmos — that is, the doctrine of the so-called plutonic rocks.

If, in the first part of my "Primordial Cell" I had tolerated the doctrine, and with resignation accepted that the core of the Earth - and also that knowledge pertaining to the real genesis of our Earth will always be hidden from us - then, at the end of this book, there is now an alternative: the meteorite is that which reveals a distant passage, which no researcher has yet dared.

With this guide I now continue.

I did it, accompanied on the one hand by the sharply pronounced sarcasm of the specialists, and on the other hand cheered up by the earlier results and the now daily support and counsel from the few friends whom I have succeeded in convincing.

The results yielded from a strenuous effort of almost super human endeavor over this previous year are laid down in the following pages.

It is a life-world in a rock which fell to Earth and brought us news of the smallest beings from the most distant places - a life-world which a mortal eye could scarcely hope to behold: a world of beings showing us the creative power that made our Earth out of a nebula, and has worked everywhere and evenly in the universe.

Admittedly, the meteorites, namely the chondrites, for these are the ones which are preferentially subject to my investigations, have no life of higher construction; instead, all are lower life forms - the same ones which prevail in the Silurian strata - sponges, corals, and crinoids - it is with these species that similar characteristics are found.

The chondrites that I have studied are olivine enstatite rock. They have undergone alterations since the time of their formation as the remains of life forms, and up until they landed, but not considerably. They have been permeated with a silicate solution, in similar manner to the Jura deposits with a solution of lime. Probably, while it was part of its parent body, it went through planetary cycles, and just as new ones have followed each other down to the lower strata of our Earth, under the influence of which the former have undergone a certain, though not so considerable transformation as one usually assumes.

Only the surface of the meteorites have changed considerably, and indeed only at the last moment of their planetary existence, and mostly due to the influence of frictional heat created in this case by the Earth's atmosphere. But the original meteorite itself essentially remains. So we now see that before us is a piece of a planet as it was in the process of becoming, and thus the history of our Earth's body is now open to us, provided that we are correct that the meteorites in their formation was homogeneous in their chemical composition with the same world matter which formed the Earth and vice versa. At the same time, by sending me the "Meteorite of Ovifak" (I owe it to the kindness of Professor Dr. von Nordenskjöld) I was offered the opportunity to bring this rock into the investigation.

I consider it earthly - consider it the deepest layer our Earth, to the olivine layer, which belongs under the granite. I call the original layer the Olivine Formation. Since the rock is very similar to a meteorite, it was natural to declare it the same. The reasons why I do not consider it to be meteoritic but true to the Earth's core are laid down in this book.

So we have gained two solid points, from which a lever can be set.

The chondrites, an olivine-feldspar (enstatite) rock, consists of a life-world, they are not a layer of sedimentary rock, not a conglomerate, but a thick mat of life, a tissue whose meshes were all once living beings, and life of the lowest kind, the beginnings of a creation.

However, I could not make a systematic enumeration of this life-world which is preserved in the meteorites: I just wanted to prove that it is - there it is. I therefore only depicted the organic beings which I could content myself with determining undoubtedly, on the one hand, the genera which coincides with terrestrial forms, and on the other, separating out the specifically meteoritic forms, while leaving both for future investigation.

It is to be expected that my enumeration will be, through further research, and with the help of richer material than I have available, will be multiplied and supplemented. In particular, sudivisions had to be avoided: every newly found being would overturn any divisions and thus make the effort arduous, and any work in vain.

This was the reason why I only made large divisions and these only to the extent that this contributed to the understanding of the forms. I repeat, the work in this direction should not be considered exhaustive and complete.

In other ways I have also made an indulgence, such as in the demarcation of the main divisions themselves.

Anyone who even superficially surveys the forms will soon find that they provide the actual history of development. All the transitions from the sponge to the coral, from the coral to the crinoid are present, so that it becomes really doubtful if one should make a new species to give to these transitions.

In such beginnings, mistakes are inevitable, so it is only a small demand to ask to forgive them. Nor did I want to delay the publication of the work too long, and therefore have it just as it is now available.

2:
Section 1

Previous Views On the Meteorite

History and Overview

Last year, when I wrote down in my diary certain new observations about the composition of the rocks of our Earth and finally also of the meteorities, the importance of the latter to geology was not fully clear to me.

It was only when I was forced by the attacks of opponents to take the investigation again into my hands, that I clearly realized the importance that a careful study of meteorites could be to the history of our Earth. Lastly, I came to the conclusion that, in the present state of geology, the meteorities - and only the meteorites, give the point from which the history of the Earth could at least be explored with almost certainty.

If, in the "Primordial Cell", I thought I had reached the limit of research with granite, I soon learned better. I contemplated that by virtue of its specific gravity, our Earth's core must also consist of at least solid iron, further considering the very probable order in the meteorites, which goes from pure iron to the feldspar rocks of our earth. I further believed that a conclusion from our Earth on the meteorites could be ventured, the conclusion that in the other planets and in those, or the one whose debris we have in the hundred thousand of orbiting meteorites before us, a sequence of stratification from heavy to light, a stratigraphy which we probably pass through in the series from pure iron through the half iron (Pallasite, Hainwood) to the chondrites and eucrites, then to the coal meteorites (Cold Bokkeveld) in front of us.

Once this probability had been gained, it was obvious that the meteorites should be subjected to a thorough examination of their morphological characteristics. This was also highly necessary, because so far almost nothing had happened in this direction: one can convince oneself of this by comparing my illustrations with the roughly twenty meager images, which taken together form the material of the science today. The academic writings of Berlin, Vienna, and Munich have only a few panels each, the drawings are small, and it immediately shows, are taken from the least suitable meteorites for this direction of investigation and, moreover, probably not from the best part, the interior.

So if, I thought, my earlier assertion that the Knyahinya Meteorite consisted entirely of life, was not confirmed by my new investigations, then science would have still been served if I were to show the true form of this meteorite. Fortunately, however, I was spared this retreat: on the contrary the result of the new research was far beyond expectations — a new world emerged.

But, of course - our science is doubtful - it rightly demands more stringent evidence than I offered in my "Primordial Cell"; a book written more at the stage of, I would say, intuition. Today I present that evidence.

As one examines the panels of this work, it immediately becomes certain that these are not mineral forms, but organic forms, that we have before us the images of life, images of life of the lowest order, a creation which, in greater part, finds some of its closest relatives on Earth - with regard to the corals and crinoids, this is determined with absolute certainty; however, the sponges only have a little such similarity with the forms of the terrestrial genera of the Earth.

Thus, the origin was established with regard to the parts. However, in my study of 20 chondrites (and 360 thin sections of them), the assertion made in my “Primordial Cell” confirmed that the rock of the chondrites is not a type of sedimentary rock as on our Earth, in which fossils are embedded, that it is not a conglomerate formation; rather, its whole mass is entirely formed of organic beings, like our coral rocks. So not plant, as I assumed earlier, but Pflanzenthiere! The whole stone a life: — I think science will forgive me the first mistake.

Needless to say, the meteoric iron was now subject to another test. Here it remained at my first observation.

However, time and circumstances, especially the lack of available materials prevented me from concluding the investigation prior to this publication. But if I repeat today the first assertion that the meteoritic iron is nothing but a mat of plants, then I may now regard myself as more legitimate than at the time when I wrote the “Primordial Cell” in asserting the prior statement. I have to add that I also found life forms in iron. The researchers who avoided the forms of chondrites that I depict may have overlooked the fact that the so-called Widmanstätten's (Thompson's) figures are, for the most part, plant cells and not crystals.

The investigations up till now, in the whole field, with the exception of [Karl Wilhelm von] Gümbel's work in the Munich Academy, are of litte use, both regarding their accuracy of observation and even more as regards the interpretations based upon those observations, on unproven hypotheses and weak assumptions - not suitable for scientific findings as such. And due to this the field was still wide open to me, although my only regret is that I cannot make a draft in time regarding the iron.

I now come to the conclusions for geography. If the chondrites, an olivine and enstatite rock, are really what I assure: that is, only pieces of sponge-coral-crinoid rock, then a fact of immeasurable consequence has been discovered for the science of our Earth.

A feldspar mineral is purely a water production, it is petrifying matter of millions of organisms! Thus, all hypotheses about the metamorphic and plutonic rocks of our Earth fall, and with them the theory of the fire-liquid Earth interior — at least no conclusion can be drawn from the rocks any more.

I have to justify this now. The comparison of rocks from Earth with the meteorites shows that the chondrite, at least according to its chemical nature, has its closest relatives on the Earth.

The olivine rock of our Earth is, as a Lherzolite, a bedrock layer as we see with basalt breaking through the granite; I arrive at these results which [Gabriel Auguste] Daubrée has shown.


